# Conventions of a Good README File #

Your README file should be as good as your project itself.

Make your project stand out and look professional by at least including the following elements in your README:

    Project Title: the name of your project
    Description: This is an extremely important component of the README. You should describe the main purpose of your project. Answer questions like “why did you build this project?” and “what problem(s) does it solve?”. It also helps to include your motivations for the project and what you learned from it.
    Features: If your project has multiple features, list them here. Don’t be afraid to brag if your project has unique features that make it stand out. You can even add screenshots and gifs to show off the features.
    How to use: Here, you should write step-by-step instructions on how to install and use your project. Any software or package requirements should also be listed here.
    Technologies: List all the technologies and/or frameworks you used and what purpose they serve in your project.
    Collaborators: If others have contributed to your project in any way, it is important to give them credit for their work. Write your team members’ or collaborators’ names here along with a link to their GitHub profile.
    License: It’s also important to list a license on your README so other developers can understand what they can and cannot do with your project. You can use this guide to help you choose a license.

Keep READMEs brief but detailed. README should always be up-to-date and self-explanatory. If you have spent a lot of time on your project, you should also spend a good chunk of time on the README. It can help your future self as well when you step away for a while and need to get reacquainted with your project. Not to mention it’ll leave a positive impression on future interviewers who look at your GitHub profile.

  ##Using Markdown to Format READMEs##

Keep in mind that nobody wants to read a long block of unformatted text bloated with information. That is why a README file usually has the .md extension. Formatting README files with Markdown can give them flair and make them interesting to read.
