Introduction

Consider the website to the right. We can see that the site is listing hotels in Singapore. Do you know if this site
offers any other categories of travel products (tours, flights, experiences) or products in other regions? There is 
no way to tell from the current view.
What is primary vs secondary navigation?

    The primary navigation system typically contains the most important links and buttons that need to be displayed 
on every single page of the site.
    Secondary navigation, or breadcrumb navigation, usually consists of a clickable list of pages or attributes that 
led to the current page. It can help users understand the extent of the site and also where they are currently.

For example, a shopping site may have a breadcrumb trail leading to a pair of shoes like so:
Why do we call them breadcrumbs?

Think about the story of Hansel and Gretel, where the kids drop breadcrumbs as they walked in the woods so that they 
would be able to find their way back.
Benefit of using breadcrumbs

Breadcrumb navigation provides a lot of benefits for users that come to random pages in a website through direct 
links or search results. Even if they enter to a seemingly random page on our site, they already have an idea of 
where they are in the website. The breadcrumb also hints at the extent of the site. For the example above, users 
could safely assume the site had shoes for other categories, shoes in different styles, and shoes in more colors.

Breadcrumbs also provide a way for a user to quickly jump backward in their navigation of the site. For example, if a 
user wanted to browse another style of shoe, they could click directly on the “Shoes” page and navigate to their 
desired style. Without the breadcrumbs, they would likely need to click “back” twice in their browser or start their 
search over from the home page.

The decision to use breadcrumbs is a judgment call depending on the type, depth, and complexity of your site. In this 
lesson, we’ll discuss some of the benefits of including breadcrumb navigation, how to implement it using HTML and 
CSS, and some of the pitfalls to avoid.
